




































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































    'And in part him; but' you may say 'not well:
    'Anon he finds him
    'As by lot, God wot,'
    'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
    'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
    'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
    'Faith, her privates we.
    'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
    'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
    'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
    'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
    'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
    'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
    'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
    'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
    'In her excellent white bosom, these, & c.'
    'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
    'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
    'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
    'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
    'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
    'One fair daughter and no more,
    'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
    'Sblood, there is something in this more than
    'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
    'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
    'The mobled queen?'
    'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
    'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
    'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
    'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
    'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
    'Thus didest thou.'
    'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
    'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
    'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
    'Tis brief, my lord.
    'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
    'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
    'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
    'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
    'Tis gone!
    'Tis gone, and will not answer.
    'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
    'Tis here!
    'Tis here!
    'Tis in my memory lock'd,
    'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
    'Tis most true:
    'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
    'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
    'Tis strange.
    'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
    'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
    'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
    'Tis very strange.
    'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
    'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
    'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
    'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
    'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
    'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
    'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
    'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
    'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
    'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
    'twas so indeed.
    'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
    A Norman was't?
    A Norman.
    A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
    A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
    A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
    A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
    A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
    A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
    A combination and a form indeed,
    A couch for luxury and damned incest.
    A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
    A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
    A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
    A dead march. Exeunt, bearing off the dead bodies; after which a peal of ordnance is shot off
    A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
    A double blessing is a double grace,
    A dream itself is but a shadow.
    A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
    A face without a heart?
    A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
    A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
    A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
    A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
    A hit, a very palpable hit.
    A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
    A king of shreds and patches,--
    A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
    A little month, or ere those shoes were old
    A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
    A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
    A ministering angel shall my sister be,
    A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
    A murderer and a villain;
    A noise within
    A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
    A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
    A piece of him.
    A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
    A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
    A sable silver'd.
    A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
    A scullion!
    A second time I kill my husband dead,
    A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
    A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
    A sister driven into desperate terms,
    A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
    A station like the herald Mercury
    A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
    A thing, my lord!
    A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
    A touch, a touch, I do confess.
    A truant disposition, good my lord.
    A very noble youth: mark.
    A very riband in the cap of youth,
    A very, very--pajock.
    A villain kills my father; and for that,
    A violet in the youth of primy nature,
    A whole one, I.
    A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
    A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
    About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
    About the world have times twelve thirties been,
    Absent thee from felicity awhile,
    Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
    According to the phrase or the addition
    Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
    Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
    Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
    Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
    Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
    Affront Ophelia:
    After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
    After the thing it loves.
    Against some part of Poland.
    Against the which, a moiety competent
    Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
    Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
    Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
    Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
    Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
    Alack,
    Alack, and fie for shame!
    Alack, what noise is this?
    Alas, alas!
    Alas, he's mad!
    Alas, how is't with you,
    Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
    Alas, look here, my lord.
    Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
    Alas, poor ghost!
    Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
    Alas, then, she is drown'd?
    Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
    All flaxen was his poll:
    All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
    All given to mine ear.
    All in the morning betime,
    All may be well.
    All my smooth body.
    All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
    Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
    Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
    Among a mineral of metals base,
    An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
    An earnest conjuration from the king,
    An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
    An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
    An thou hadst not come to my bed.
    An understanding simple and unschool'd:
    An you call him a-down-a.
    And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
    And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
    And I a maid at your window,
    And I am sick at heart.
    And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
    And I beseech you instantly to visit
    And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
    And I do think, or else this brain of mine
    And I the matter will re-word; which madness
    And I with them the third night kept the watch;
    And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
    And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
    And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
    And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
    And after we will both our judgments join
    And all we mourn for.
    And am most sensible in grief for it,
    And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
    And at our more consider'd time well read,
    And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
    And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
    And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
    And bear it to the chapel.
    And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
    And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
    And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
    And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
    And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
    And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
    And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
    And break your own neck down.
    And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
    And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
    And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
    And call it accident.
    And call the noblest to the audience.
    And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
    And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
    And carriage of the article design'd,
    And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
    And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
    And could of men distinguish, her election
    And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
    And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
    And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
    And do such bitter business as the day
    And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
    And draw you into madness? think of it:
    And drive his purpose on to these delights.
    And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
    And dupp'd the chamber-door;
    And each particular hair to stand on end,
    And either [ ] the devil, or throw him out
    And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
    And enterprises of great pith and moment
    And even the like precurse of fierce events,
    And ever three parts coward, I do not know
    And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
    And fix'd his eyes upon you?
    And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
    And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
    And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
    And for my soul, what can it do to that,
    And for the day confined to fast in fires,
    And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
    And for your rapier most especially,
    And foreign mart for implements of war;
    And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
    And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
    And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
    And gather by him, as he is behaved,
    And gave you such a masterly report
    And gem of all the nation.
    And hath abatements and delays as many
    And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
    And hath shipped me intil the land,
    And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
    And he to England shall along with you:
    And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
    And hears it roar beneath.
    And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
    And his commission to employ those soldiers,
    And his sandal shoon.
    And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
    And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
    And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
    And hurt my brother.
    And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
    And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
    And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
    And in the cup an union shall he throw,
    And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
    And in the porches of my ears did pour
    And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
    And it must follow, as the night the day,
    And keep you in the rear of your affection,
    And lay your hands again upon my sword:
    And leads the will to desperate undertakings
    And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
    And let him know so.
    And let him ply his music.
    And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
    And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
    And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
    And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
    And let them know, both what we mean to do,
    And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
    And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
    And let us once again assail your ears,
    And liegemen to the Dane.
    And like a neutral to his will and matter,
    And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
    And live the purer with the other half.
    And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
    And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
    And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
    And makes each petty artery in this body
    And makes us rather bear those ills we have
    And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
    And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
    And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
    And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
    And more above, hath his solicitings,
    And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
    And my imaginations are as foul
    And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
    And never come mischance between us twain!
    And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
    And not have strew'd thy grave.
    And not where I had aim'd them.
    And nothing is at a like goodness still;
    And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven;
    And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
    And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
    And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
    And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
    And our affairs from England come too late:
    And our vain blows malicious mockery.
    And passion in the gods.'
    And pious action we do sugar o'er
    And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
    And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
    And prey on garbage.
    And prologue to the omen coming on,
    And put it in his pocket!
    And reason panders will.
    And recks not his own rede.
    And set a double varnish on the fame
    And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
    And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
    And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
    And smelt so? pah!
    And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
    And so have I a noble father lost;
    And so, without more circumstance at all,
    And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
    And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
    And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
    And sure I am two men there are not living
    And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
    And tell you what I know.
    And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
    And that I see, in passages of proof,
    And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
    And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
    And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
    And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
    And that our drift look through our bad performance,
    And that shall lend a kind of easiness
    And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
    And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
    And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
    And the queen too, and that presently.
    And then it started like a guilty thing
    And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
    And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
    And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
    And there I see such black and grained spots
    And there assume some other horrible form,
    And there did seem in him a kind of joy
    And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
    And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
    And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
    And these few precepts in thy memory
    And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
    And they in France of the best rank and station
    And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
    And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
    And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
    And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
    And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
    And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
    And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
    And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
    And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
    And thus the native hue of resolution
    And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
    And thy commandment all alone shall live
    And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
    And to the manner born, it is a custom
    And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
    And vanish'd from our sight.
    And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
    And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
    And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
    And we beseech you, bend you to remain
    And we cast away moan:
    And we did think it writ down in our duty
    And we shall jointly labour with your soul
    And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
    And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
    And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
    And what's untimely done. O, come away!
    And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
    And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
    And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
    And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
    And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
    And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
    And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
    And will he not come again?
    And will he not come again?
    And will not let belief take hold of him
    And will not wrong it.
    And will this brother's wager frankly play.
    And with a larger tether may he walk
    And with a look so piteous in purport
    And with a sudden vigour doth posset
    And with no less nobility of love
    And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
    And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
    And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
    And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
    And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
    And you must put me in your heart for friend,
    And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
    And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
    And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
    And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
    And, as I think, they have already order
    And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
    And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
    And, as the world were now but to begin,
    And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
    And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
    And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
    And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
    And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
    And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
    And, like a man to double business bound,
    And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
    And, sister, as the winds give benefit
    And, to the last, bended their light on me.
    And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
    And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
    And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
    And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
    Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
    Anon, as patient as the female dove,
    Another hit; what say you?
    Answer, and think upon this business.
    Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
    Appears before them, and with solemn march
    Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
    Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
    Are here arrived give order that these bodies
    Are joyfully return'd.
    Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
    Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
    Are you fair?
    Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
    Arm'd, my lord.
    Arm'd, say you?
    Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
    Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
    Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
    As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
    As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
    As England was his faithful tributary,
    As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
    As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
    As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
    As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
    As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
    As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
    As are companions noted and most known
    As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
    As checking at his voyage, and that he means
    As day does to your eye.
    As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
    As did that one, and that, in my regard,
    As e'er my conversation coped withal.
    As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
    As fits a king's remembrance.
    As from the body of contraction plucks
    As gaming, my lord.
    As harbingers preceding still the fates
    As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
    As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
    As he in his particular act and place
    As he is very potent with such spirits,
    As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
    As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
    As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
    As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
    As if I had never been such.
    As if he had been loosed out of hell
    As if increase of appetite had grown
    As if it some impartment did desire
    As infinite as man may undergo--
    As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
    As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
    As it doth well appear unto our state--
    As it hath used to do, that I have found
    As it is common for the younger sort
    As kill a king!
    As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
    As love between them like the palm might flourish,
    As low as to the fiends!'
    As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
    As make your bouts more violent to that end--
    As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
    As meditation or the thoughts of love,
    As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
    As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
    As of a father: for let the world take note,
    As of a man faithful and honourable.
    As oft as any passion under heaven
    As one incapable of her own distress,
    As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
    As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
    As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
    As the indifferent children of the earth.
    As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
    As therein are set down.
    As they fell out by time, by means and place,
    As thou art to thyself:
    As thou'rt a man,
    As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
    As to expend your time with us awhile,
    As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
    As to peace-parted souls.
    As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
    As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
    As will not leave their tinct.
    As woman's love.
    As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
    As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
    Aside
    Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
    At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
    At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
    At gaming, swearing, or about some act
    At his head a grass-green turf,
    At his heels a stone.
    At home, my lord.
    At last, a little shaking of mine arm
    At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
    At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
    At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
    At supper! where?
    At supper.
    Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
    Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
    Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
    Away, I do beseech you, both away:
    Ay me, what act,
    Ay, Hamlet.
    Ay, amen!
    Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
    Ay, by heaven, my lord.
    Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
    Ay, good my lord.
    Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
    Ay, madam, it is common.
    Ay, marry, is't:
    Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
    Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
    Ay, my good lord.
    Ay, my lord,
    Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
    Ay, my lord.
    Ay, my lord.
    Ay, my lord.
    Ay, my lord.
    Ay, my lord.
    Ay, my lord;
    Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
    Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
    Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
    Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
    Ay, sir, what of him?
    Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
    Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
    Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
    Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
    Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
    Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
    Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
    Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
    Ay, very well, my lord.
    Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
    Be all my sins remember'd.
    Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
    Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
    Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
    Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
    Be ruled; you shall not go.
    Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
    Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
    Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
    Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
    Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
    Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
    Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
    Be you and I behind an arras then;
    Be you content to lend your patience to us,
    Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
    Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
    Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
    Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
    Been struck so to the soul that presently
    Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
    Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
    Before my God, I might not this believe
    Before my daughter told me--what might you,
    Before you visit him, to make inquire
    Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
    Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
    Behind the arras hearing something stir,
    Being a thing immortal as itself?
    Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
    Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
    Believe me, I cannot.
    Believe so much in him, that he is young
    Believe what?
    Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
    Bernardo has my place.
    Bernardo?
    Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
    Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
    Bestow this place on us a little while.
    Between the pass and fell incensed points
    Between who?
    Bid the players make haste.
    Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
    Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
    Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
    Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
    Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
    Both to my God and to my gracious king:
    Both your majesties
    Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
    Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
    Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
    Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
    Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
    Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
    Bring him before us.
    Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
    Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
    But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
    But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
    But I do prophesy the election lights
    But I have that within which passeth show;
    But I will delve one yard below their mines,
    But age, with his stealing steps,
    But answer made it none: yet once methought
    But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
    But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
    But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
    But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
    But do not go with it.
    But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
    But even then the morning cock crew loud,
    But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
    But farewell it, for I will use no art.
    But from what cause he will by no means speak.
    But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
    But he's an arrant knave.
    But how hath she
    But if the gods themselves did see her then
    But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
    But in battalions. First, her father slain:
    But in our circumstance and course of thought,
    But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
    But is this law?
    But it reserved some quantity of choice,
    But keep a farm and carters.
    But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
    But let me hear from you.
    But let that go.
    But let this same be presently perform'd,
    But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
    But mere implorators of unholy suits,
    But never doubt I love.
    But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
    But not by him.
    But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
    But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
    But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
    But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
    But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
    But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
    But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
    But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
    But that I know love is begun by time;
    But that the dread of something after death,
    But that this folly douts it.
    But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
    But these cannot I command to any utterance of
    But this eternal blazon must not be
    But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
    But to confront the visage of offence?
    But to my mind, though I am native here
    But to recover of us, by strong hand
    But truly, I do fear it.
    But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
    But virtue, as it never will be moved,
    But we both obey,
    But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
    But what is your affair in Elsinore?
    But what we do determine oft we break.
    But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
    But where is he?
    But where was this?
    But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
    But with much forcing of his disposition.
    But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
    But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
    But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
    But you'll be secret?
    But, as we often see, against some storm,
    But, better look'd into, he truly found
    But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
    But, if you hold it fit, after the play
    But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
    But, like the owner of a foul disease,
    But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
    But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
    But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
    But, my good lord,--
    But, orderly to end where I begun,
    But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
    But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
    But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
    But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
    But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
    But, you must know, your father lost a father;
    Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
    Buz, buz!
    By Gis and by Saint Charity,
    By and by is easily said.
    By cock, they are to blame.
    By desperate appliance are relieved,
    By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
    By heaven, it is as proper to our age
    By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
    By his cockle hat and staff,
    By indirections find directions out:
    By laboursome petition, and at last
    By letters congruing to that effect,
    By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
    By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
    By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
    By this encompassment and drift of question
    By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
    Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
    Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
    Calmly, good Laertes.
    Came this from Hamlet to her?
    Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
    Can you advise me?
    Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
    Capitol; Brutus killed me.
    Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
    Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
    Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
    Christian burial.
    Christian burial.
    Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
    Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
    Cock crows
    Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
    Collected from all simples that have virtue
    Come hither, gentlemen,
    Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
    Come on, sir.
    Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
    Come short of what he did.
    Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
    Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
    Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
    Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
    Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
    Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
    Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
    Come, let me wipe thy face.
    Come, my lord.
    Come, one for me.
    Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
    Come, sirs.
    Come, some music!
    Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
    Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
    Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
    Conceit upon her father.
    Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
    Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
    Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
    Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
    Consent to swear.
    Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
    Contagious blastments are most imminent.
    Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
    Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
    Couch we awhile, and mark.
    Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
    Could force his soul so to his own conceit
    Could not so mope.
    Could not, with all their quantity of love,
    Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
    Craves the conveyance of a promised march
    Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
    Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
    Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
    Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
    Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
    Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
    Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
    Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
    Dead.
    Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
    Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
    Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
    Denmark's a prison.
    Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
    Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
    Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
    Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
    Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
    Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
    Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
    Did he receive you well?
    Did not together pluck such envy from him
    Did nothing.
    Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
    Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
    Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
    Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
    Did you assay him?
    Did you not speak to it?
    Dies
    Dies
    Dies
    Dies in his own too much: that we would do
    Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
    Directly seasons him his enemy.
    Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
    Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
    Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
    Do I impart toward you. For your intent
    Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
    Do not believe it.
    Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
    Do not forget: this visitation
    Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
    Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
    Do not, my lord.
    Do the boys carry it away?
    Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
    Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
    Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
    Do you doubt that?
    Do you know me, my lord?
    Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
    Do you see nothing there?
    Do you see this, O God?
    Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
    Do you think 'tis this?
    Do you think I meant country matters?
    Do, if it will not stand.
    Does by their own insinuation grow:
    Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
    Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
    Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
    Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
    Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
    Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
    Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
    Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
    Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
    Doubt that the sun doth move;
    Doubt truth to be a liar;
    Drabbing: you may go so far.
    Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
    Drown'd! O, where?
    Drown'd, drown'd.
    E'en so, my lord.
    E'en so.
    E'en that.
    Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
    Each small annexment, petty consequence,
    Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
    Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
    Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
    Ecstasy!
    Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
    England! Farewell, dear mother.
    Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching 
    Enter FORTINBRAS, the English Ambassadors, and others
    Enter GHOST and HAMLET 
    Enter Ghost
    Enter Ghost
    Enter Ghost
    Enter HAMLET
    Enter HAMLET
    Enter HAMLET
    Enter HAMLET 
    Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN
    Enter HAMLET and HORATIO 
    Enter HAMLET and HORATIO, at a distance
    Enter HAMLET and Players 
    Enter HAMLET, HORATIO, and MARCELLUS 
    Enter HAMLET, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
    Enter HAMLET, reading
    Enter HORATIO
    Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
    Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
    Enter HORATIO and a Servant 
    Enter HORATIO, MARCELLUS, and BERNARDO
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES 
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, HAMLET, POLONIUS, LAERTES, VOLTIMAND, CORNELIUS, Lords, and Attendants 
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, LAERTES, Lords, OSRIC, and Attendants with foils, & c
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN 
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and Attendants 
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN 
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN 
    Enter KING CLAUDIUS, attended 
    Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA 
    Enter LAERTES, armed; Danes following
    Enter LUCIANUS
    Enter OPHELIA
    Enter OSRIC
    Enter POLONIUS
    Enter POLONIUS
    Enter POLONIUS
    Enter POLONIUS
    Enter POLONIUS
    Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO 
    Enter POLONIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
    Enter Priest, & c. in procession; the Corpse of OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains, & c
    Enter Prologue
    Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE
    Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE and POLONIUS 
    Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE, HORATIO, and a Gentleman 
    Enter ROSENCRANTZ
    Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Enter Sailors
    Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing him, and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's ears, and exit. The Queen returns; finds the King dead, and makes passionate action. The Poisoner, with some two or three Mutes, comes in again, seeming to lament with her. The dead body is carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts: she seems loath and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts his love
    Enter a Lord
    Enter a Messenger
    Enter another Gentleman
    Enter four or five Players
    Enter two Clowns, with spades, & c 
    Enter two Players, King and Queen
    Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
    Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
    Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
    Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
    Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
    Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
    Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
    Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
    Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
    Even with the very comment of thy soul
    Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
    Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
    Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
    Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
    Excitements of my reason and my blood,
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt
    Exeunt Attendants
    Exeunt FORTINBRAS and Soldiers
    Exeunt Ghost and HAMLET
    Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
    Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and Attendants
    Exeunt Players
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some Attendants
    Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
    Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
    Exeunt all but HAMLET
    Exeunt all but HAMLET
    Exeunt all but HAMLET
    Exeunt all but HAMLET and HORATIO
    Exeunt all except HAMLET
    Exeunt severally; HAMLET dragging in POLONIUS
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit
    Exit First Player
    Exit Ghost
    Exit Ghost
    Exit Ghost
    Exit HORATIO
    Exit HORATIO
    Exit HORATIO
    Exit Lord
    Exit Messenger
    Exit OSRIC
    Exit POLONIUS
    Exit POLONIUS
    Exit POLONIUS
    Exit POLONIUS
    Exit POLONIUS
    Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First
    Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE
    Exit REYNALDO
    Exit Second Clown
    Exit Servant
    Exposing what is mortal and unsure
    Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
    Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
    FRANCISCO at his post. Enter to him BERNARDO 
    Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
    Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
    Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
    Falls and dies
    Fare you well, my dove!
    Fare you well, my lord.
    Farewell!
    Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
    Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
    Farewell.
    Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
    Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
    Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
    Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
    Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
    Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
    Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
    Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
    Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
    Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
    Flourish of trumpets within
    Folded the writ up in form of the other,
    Follow her close; give her good watch,
    Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
    Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
    Follow my mother.
    For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
    For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
    For England!
    For England.
    For God's love, let me hear.
    For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
    For Hecuba!
    For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
    For and a shrouding sheet:
    For art and exercise in your defence
    For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
    For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
    For every man has business and desire,
    For food and diet, to some enterprise
    For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
    For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
    For he himself is subject to his birth:
    For he was likely, had he been put on,
    For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
    For husband shalt thou--
    For if the king like not the comedy,
    For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
    For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
    For in the fatness of these pursy times
    For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
    For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
    For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
    For love of God, forbear him.
    For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
    For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
    For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
    For no man, sir.
    For none, neither.
    For out o' doors he went without their helps,
    For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
    For some must watch, while some must sleep:
    For such a guest is meet.
    For such a guest is meet.
    For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
    For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
    For the demand of our neglected tribute
    For the supply and profit of our hope,
    For they are actions that a man might play:
    For this effect defective comes by cause:
    For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
    For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
    For us, and for our tragedy,
    For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
    For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
    For we will fetters put upon this fear,
    For what advancement may I hope from thee
    For what we know must be and is as common
    For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
    For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
    For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
    For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
    For women's fear and love holds quantity;
    For your desire to know what is between us,
    For, by the image of my cause, I see
    For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
    Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
    Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
    Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
    Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
    Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
    Friend, look to 't.
    Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
    Friends to this ground.
    From Hamlet! who brought them?
    From another one?
    From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
    From me, whose love was of that dignity
    From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
    From that particular fault: the dram of eale
    From the fair forehead of an innocent love
    From the first corse till he that died to-day,
    From top to toe?
    From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
    Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
    Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
    Gentlemen,--
    Gertrude, do not drink.
    Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
    Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
    Get you a place.
    Ghost beckons HAMLET
    Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
    Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
    Give him the cup.
    Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
    Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
    Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
    Give me my father!
    Give me one poor request.
    Give me some light: away!
    Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
    Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
    Give o'er the play.
    Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
    Give us the foils. Come on.
    Give you good night.
    Give you good night.
    Given private time to you; and you yourself
    Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
    Gives me superfluous death.
    Giving a paper
    Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
    Giving to you no further personal power
    Go on; I'll follow thee.
    Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
    Go seek him there.
    Go softly on.
    Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
    Go to thy death-bed:
    Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
    Go to.
    Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
    Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
    Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
    God be wi' you, sir.
    God be wi' you; fare you well.
    God bless you, sir!
    God bless you, sir.
    God ha' mercy on his soul!
    God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
    God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
    Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
    Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
    Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
    Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
    Good Laertes,
    Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
    Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
    Good madam!
    Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
    Good my lord!
    Good my lord!
    Good my lord,
    Good my lord, be quiet.
    Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
    Good my lord, tell it.
    Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
    Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
    Good my lord, will you see the players well
    Good night, mother.
    Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
    Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
    Good sir, whose powers are these?
    Good.
    Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
    Grappling with him
    Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
    Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
    Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
    Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
    Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
    HAMLET moves him to put on his hat
    Ha!
    Ha, ha! are you honest?
    Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
    Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
    Had he the motive and the cue for passion
    Had it the ability of life to thank you:
    Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
    Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
    Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
    Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
    Hail to your lordship!
    Half a share.
    Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
    Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
    Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
    Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
    Hamlet the Dane.
    Hamlet, Hamlet!
    Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
    Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
    Haply the seas and countries different
    Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
    Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
    Hark you, Guildenstern; and you too: at each ear a
    Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
    Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
    Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
    Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
    Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
    Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
    Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
    Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
    Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
    Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
    Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
    Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
    Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
    Have after. To what issue will this come?
    Have at you now!
    Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
    Have by the very cunning of the scene
    Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
    Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
    Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
    Have you forgot me?
    Have you had quiet guard?
    Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
    Have you so slander any moment leisure,
    Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
    Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
    Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
    He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
    He closes with you in this consequence;
    He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
    He digs and sings
    He does confess he feels himself distracted;
    He does well to commend it himself; there are no
    He falls to such perusal of my face
    He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
    He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
    He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
    He is dead and gone, lady,
    He is dead and gone;
    He is gone, he is gone,
    He is justly served;
    He likewise gives a frock or livery,
    He made confession of you,
    He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
    He may not, as unvalued persons do,
    He never gave commandment for their death.
    He never will come again.
    He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
    He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
    He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
    He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
    He should the bearers put to sudden death,
    He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
    He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
    He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
    He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
    He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
    He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
    He took my father grossly, full of bread;
    He was a man, take him for all in all,
    He was the first that ever bore arms.
    He waxes desperate with imagination.
    He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
    He will stay till ye come.
    He's fat, and scant of breath.
    He's loved of the distracted multitude,
    He.
    Hear you, sir;
    Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
    Heaven will direct it.
    Heavens make our presence and our practises
    Help, help, ho!
    Her brother is in secret come from France;
    Her father and myself, lawful espials,
    Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
    Her mood will needs be pitied.
    Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
    Here in the lobby.
    Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
    Here stooping to your clemency,
    Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
    Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
    Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
    Here's to thy health.
    Here's yet some liquor left.
    Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
    Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
    Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
    Here, sweet lord, at your service.
    Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
    Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
    Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
    High on a stage be placed to the view;
    Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
    Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
    His access to me.
    His beard was as white as snow,
    His beard was grizzled--no?
    His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
    His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
    His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
    His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
    His further gait herein; in that the levies,
    His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
    His liberty is full of threats to all;
    His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
    His means of death, his obscure funeral--
    His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
    His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
    His silence will sit drooping.
    Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
    Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
    Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
    Hold off your hands.
    Hold you the watch to-night?
    Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
    Holds such an enmity with blood of man
    Holla! Bernardo!
    Honest, my lord!
    Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
    Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
    Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
    Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
    Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
    How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
    How all occasions do inform against me,
    How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
    How came he mad?
    How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
    How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
    How chances it they travel? their residence, both
    How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
    How comes it? do they grow rusty?
    How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
    How do you, pretty lady?
    How does my good Lord Hamlet?
    How does the queen?
    How does your honour for this many a day?
    How fares my lord?
    How fares our cousin Hamlet?
    How if I answer 'no'?
    How in my words soever she be shent,
    How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
    How is it with you, lady?
    How is't, Laertes?
    How is't, my noble lord?
    How long hath she been thus?
    How long is that since?
    How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
    How may we try it further?
    How much I had to do to calm his rage!
    How now! what hath befall'n?
    How now! what news?
    How now! what noise is that?
    How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
    How now, Ophelia!
    How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
    How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
    How now, sweet queen!
    How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
    How purposed, sir, I pray you?
    How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
    How should I your true love know
    How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
    How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
    How strangely?
    How these things came about: so shall you hear
    How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
    How was this seal'd?
    How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
    Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
    Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
    Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
    Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
    I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
    I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
    I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
    I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
    I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
    I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
    I am glad to see you well:
    I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
    I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
    I am satisfied in nature,
    I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
    I am tame, sir: pronounce.
    I am thy father's spirit,
    I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
    I beseech you, remember--
    I beseech you.
    I bought an unction of a mountebank,
    I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
    I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
    I cannot live to hear the news from England;
    I commend my duty to your lordship.
    I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
    I could interpret between you and your love, if I
    I could not but by her. The other motive,
    I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
    I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
    I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
    I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
    I did repel his fetters and denied
    I did very well note him.
    I do believe you think what now you speak;
    I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
    I do beseech you.
    I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
    I do not know from what part of the world
    I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
    I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
    I do not think so: since he went into France, I
    I do not think't.
    I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
    I do receive your offer'd love like love,
    I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
    I doubt it is no other but the main;
    I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
    I embrace it freely;
    I find thee apt;
    I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
    I had my father's signet in my purse,
    I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
    I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
    I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
    I have a voice and precedent of peace,
    I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
    I have in quick determination
    I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
    I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
    I have seen nothing.
    I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
    I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
    I have sworn 't.
    I have, my lord.
    I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
    I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
    I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
    I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
    I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
    I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
    I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
    I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
    I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
    I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
    I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
    I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
    I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
    I know no touch of it, my lord.
    I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
    I know you are not ignorant--
    I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
    I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
    I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
    I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
    I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
    I loved your father, and we love ourself;
    I made to her in marriage, and to decline
    I mean, my head upon your lap?
    I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
    I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
    I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
    I must be cruel, only to be kind:
    I must to England; you know that?
    I never gave you aught.
    I once did hold it, as our statists do,
    I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
    I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
    I pray you, give me leave.
    I pray you, go with me.
    I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
    I pray you, now receive them.
    I pray you, pass with your best violence;
    I pray you.
    I pray you.
    I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
    I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
    I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
    I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
    I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
    I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
    I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
    I shall not look upon his like again.
    I shall obey you.
    I shall obey, my lord.
    I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
    I shall, my lord.
    I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
    I should have fatted all the region kites
    I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement,
    I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
    I stay too long: but here my father comes.
    I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
    I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
    I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
    I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
    I think it be no other but e'en so:
    I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
    I think it lacks of twelve.
    I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
    I think nothing, my lord.
    I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
    I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
    I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
    I understand you not, my lord.
    I warrant it will.
    I warrant your honour.
    I was the more deceived.
    I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
    I will bestow him, and will answer well
    I will do't, my lord.
    I will do't:
    I will not speak with her.
    I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
    I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
    I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
    I will say so.
    I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
    I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
    I will watch to-night;
    I will, my lord.
    I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
    I will.
    I would I had been there.
    I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
    I would know that.
    I would not hear your enemy say so,
    I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
    I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
    I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
    I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
    I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
    I'll be with you straight go a little before.
    I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
    I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
    I'll board him presently.
    I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
    I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
    I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
    I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
    I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
    I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
    I'll rant as well as thou.
    I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
    I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
    I'll visit you.
    I'll warrant you,
    I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
    I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
    I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
    I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
    I, his sole son, do this same villain send
    If 't be the affliction of his love or no
    If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
    If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
    If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
    If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
    If by direct or by collateral hand
    If circumstances lead me, I will find
    If damned custom have not brass'd it so
    If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
    If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
    If his chief good and market of his time
    If it assume my noble father's person,
    If it be made of penetrable stuff,
    If it be so, Laertes--
    If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
    If it be,
    If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
    If she should break it now!
    If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
    If that his majesty would aught with us,
    If there be any good thing to be done,
    If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
    If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
    If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
    If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
    If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
    If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
    If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
    If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
    If with too credent ear you list his songs,
    If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
    If you desire to know the certainty
    If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
    If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
    If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
    If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
    If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
    Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
    Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
    Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
    Importing the surrender of those lands
    In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
    In censure of his seeming.
    In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
    In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
    In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
    In faith,
    In filial obligation for some term
    In further evil?
    In general synod 'take away her power;
    In going back to school in Wittenberg,
    In happy time.
    In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
    In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
    In honourable fashion.
    In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
    In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
    In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
    In my mind's eye, Horatio.
    In neither aught, or in extremity.
    In noise so rude against me?
    In obstinate condolement is a course
    In second husband let me be accurst!
    In that and all things will we show our duty.
    In the corrupted currents of this world
    In the dead vast and middle of the night,
    In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
    In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
    In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
    In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
    In thee there is not half an hour of life;
    In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
    In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
    In what particular thought to work I know not;
    In what, my dear lord?
    In which the majesty of buried Denmark
    In youth, when I did love, did love,
    Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
    Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
    Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
    Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
    Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
    Indeed, that is out o' the air.
    Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
    Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
    Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
    Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
    Into a towering passion.
    Into my grave.
    Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
    Into the madness wherein now he raves,
    Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
    Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
    Is by a forged process of my death
    Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
    Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
    Is it a custom?
    Is it not like the king?
    Is it not monstrous that this player here,
    Is it the king?
    Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
    Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
    Is not this something more than fantasy?
    Is not to stir without great argument,
    Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
    Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
    Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
    Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
    Is the great love the general gender bear him;
    Is the main motive of our preparations,
    Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
    Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
    Is thought-sick at the act.
    Is very cunning in.
    Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
    Is't possible?
    Is't possible?
    It beckons you to go away with it,
    It could not move thus.
    It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
    It faded on the crowing of the cock.
    It falls right.
    It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
    It had been so with us, had we been there:
    It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
    It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
    It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
    It is a nipping and an eager air.
    It is a poison temper'd by himself.
    It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
    It is backed like a weasel.
    It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
    It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
    It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
    It is most retrograde to our desire:
    It is not nor it cannot come to good:
    It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
    It is offended.
    It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
    It lifted up its head and did address
    It likes us well;
    It may be death.
    It may be, very likely.
    It might, my lord.
    It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
    It must be shortly known to him from England
    It sends some precious instance of itself
    It shall as level to your judgment pierce
    It shall be so:
    It shall do well: but yet do I believe
    It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
    It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
    It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
    It warms the very sickness in my heart,
    It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
    It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
    It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
    It was, as I have seen it in his life,
    It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
    It waves me still.
    It waves you to a more removed ground:
    It well appears: but tell me
    It will be laid to us, whose providence
    It will be short: the interim is mine;
    It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
    It will not speak; then I will follow it.
    It would be spoke to.
    It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
    It would have much amazed you.
    Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
    Judgment.
    KING CLAUDIUS dies
    KING CLAUDIUS puts LAERTES' hand into HAMLET's
    Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
    King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
    Know you the hand?
    LAERTES wounds HAMLET; then in scuffling, they change rapiers, and HAMLET wounds LAERTES
    Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
    Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
    Laertes, was your father dear to you?
    Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
    Larded with many several sorts of reasons
    Larded with sweet flowers
    Last night of all,
    Last, and as much containing as all these,
    Lay her i' the earth:
    Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
    Leaps into the grave
    Leaps into the grave
    Leave me, friends.
    Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
    Led by a delicate and tender prince,
    Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
    Lest with this piteous action you convert
    Let Hercules himself do what he may,
    Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
    Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
    Let four captains
    Let her come in.
    Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
    Let him bless thee too.
    Let him demand his fill.
    Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
    Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
    Let in the maid, that out a maid
    Let it be tenable in your silence still;
    Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
    Let me be no assistant for a state,
    Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
    Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
    Let me question more in particular: what have you,
    Let me see.
    Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
    Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
    Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
    Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
    Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
    Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
    Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
    Let them come in.
    Let this be so;
    Let us haste to hear it,
    Let us impart what we have seen to-night
    Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
    Let's follow, Gertrude:
    Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
    Let's further think of this;
    Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
    Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
    Lights, lights, lights!
    Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
    Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
    Like a good child and a true gentleman.
    Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
    Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
    Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
    Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
    Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
    Long live the king!
    Longer, longer.
    Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
    Look to the queen there, ho!
    Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
    Look you, I'll go pray.
    Look you, these are the stops.
    Look, my lord, it comes!
    Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
    Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
    Look, with what courteous action
    Looking before and after, gave us not
    Looks it not like the king? mark it, Horatio.
    Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
    Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
    Love! his affections do not that way tend;
    Lying down at OPHELIA's feet
    Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
    Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
    Mad for thy love?
    Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
    Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
    Madam, I wish it may.
    Madam, how like you this play?
    Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
    Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
    Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
    Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
    Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
    Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
    Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
    Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
    Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,
    Make you to ravel all this matter out,
    Makes a pass through the arras
    Makes mouths at the invisible event,
    Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
    Makes vow before his uncle never more
    Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
    Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
    March afar off, and shot within
    March within
    Mark me.
    Mark the encounter: if he love her not
    Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
    Marry, now I can tell.
    Marry, sir, here's my drift;
    Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
    Marry, well bethought:
    Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
    Mass, I cannot tell.
    May be the devil: and the devil hath power
    May do, to express his love and friending to you,
    May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
    May give his saying deed; which is no further
    May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
    May sweep to my revenge.
    May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
    Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
    Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
    Methinks it is like a weasel.
    Methought it was very sweet,
    Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
    Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
    Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
    Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
    Mine, sir.
    More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
    More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
    More matter, with less art.
    More relative than this: the play 's the thing
    More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
    More than in words?
    Moreover that we much did long to see you,
    Most constantly.
    Most fair return of greetings and desires.
    Most free in his reply.
    Most generous and free from all contriving,
    Most holy and religious fear it is
    Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
    Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
    Most like a gentleman.
    Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
    Most necessary 'tis that we forget
    Most thoroughly for my father.
    Most welcome home!
    Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
    Mother, you have my father much offended.
    Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
    Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
    Murder of Gonzago?
    Murder!
    Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
    Must give us pause: there's the respect
    Must render up myself.
    Must there no more be done?
    Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
    My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
    My custom always of the afternoon,
    My dread lord,
    My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
    My fate cries out,
    My father!--methinks I see my father.
    My father's brother, but no more like my father
    My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
    My father, in his habit as he lived!
    My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
    My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
    My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
    My good lord--
    My head should be struck off.
    My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
    My honoured lord!
    My hour is almost come,
    My liege, and madam, to expostulate
    My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
    My lord, I cannot.
    My lord, I did intend it.
    My lord, I did;
    My lord, I do not know;
    My lord, I have news to tell you.
    My lord, I have news to tell you.
    My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
    My lord, I have.
    My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
    My lord, I will be ruled;
    My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
    My lord, I'll hit him now.
    My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
    My lord, from head to foot.
    My lord, he hath importuned me with love
    My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
    My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
    My lord, not I.
    My lord, that would dishonour him.
    My lord, the king your father.
    My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
    My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
    My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
    My lord, we were sent for.
    My lord, we will not.
    My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
    My lord, you once did love me.
    My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
    My lord?
    My most dear lord!
    My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
    My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
    My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
    My operant powers their functions leave to do:
    My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
    My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
    My soul is full of discord and dismay.
    My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
    My stern effects: then what I have to do
    My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
    My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
    My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
    My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
    My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
    My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
    My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
    My will, not all the world:
    Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
    Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
    Nay, I know not.
    Nay, I know not:
    Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
    Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
    Nay, but swear't.
    Nay, but to live
    Nay, but, Ophelia,--
    Nay, come, again.
    Nay, come, let's go together.
    Nay, do not think I flatter;
    Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
    Nay, good my lord,--
    Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
    Nay, let's follow him.
    Nay, that follows not.
    Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
    Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
    Nay, very pale.
    Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
    Neither, my lord.
    Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
    Never believe it:
    Never departed more.
    Never make known what you have seen to-night.
    Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
    Never to speak of this that you have heard,
    Never to speak of this that you have seen,
    New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
    Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
    Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
    No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
    No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
    No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
    No medicine in the world can do thee good;
    No more be done:
    No more but so?
    No more to undertake it, I will work him
    No more!
    No more, sweet Hamlet!
    No more; and by a sleep to say we end
    No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
    No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
    No reckoning made, but sent to my account
    No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
    No traveller returns, puzzles the will
    No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
    No!
    No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
    No, by no means.
    No, by the rood, not so:
    No, by this hand.
    No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
    No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
    No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
    No, indeed, are they not.
    No, it is struck.
    No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
    No, let's come in.
    No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
    No, my good lord.
    No, my lord, rather with choler.
    No, my lord.
    No, no, he is dead:
    No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
    No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
    No, nor mine now.
    No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
    No, not I;
    No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
    No, nothing but ourselves.
    No.
    No; you'll reveal it.
    Noise within
    None but his enemies.
    None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
    None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
    Nor I, my lord, in faith.
    Nor I, my lord.
    Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
    Nor customary suits of solemn black,
    Nor did you nothing hear?
    Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
    Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
    Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
    Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
    Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
    Nor the soles of her shoe?
    Nor thine on me.
    Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
    Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
    Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
    Not I, my lord, by heaven.
    Not I, my lord.
    Not a jot more, my lord.
    Not a mouse stirring.
    Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
    Not from his mouth,
    Not of that dye which their investments show,
    Not shriving-time allow'd.
    Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
    Not that I know.
    Not that I think you did not love your father;
    Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
    Not when I saw't.
    Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
    Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
    Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
    Nothing, neither way.
    Nothing.
    Now I am alone.
    Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
    Now falls on Priam.
    Now fear I this will give it start again;
    Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
    Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
    Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
    Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
    Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
    Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
    Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
    Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
    Now wears his crown.
    Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
    Now, mother, what's the matter?
    Now, out of this,--
    Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
    O Gertrude, come away!
    O God!
    O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
    O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
    O Hamlet, speak no more:
    O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
    O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
    O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
    O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
    O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
    O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
    O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
    O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
    O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
    O heavenly powers, restore him!
    O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
    O heavy burthen!
    O heavy deed!
    O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
    O me, what hast thou done?
    O most pernicious woman!
    O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
    O my son, what theme?
    O royal knavery!--an exact command,
    O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
    O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
    O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
    O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
    O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
    O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
    O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
    O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
    O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
    O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
    O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
    O, I die, Horatio;
    O, a pit of clay for to be made
    O, a pit of clay for to be made
    O, but she'll keep her word.
    O, confound the rest!
    O, farewell, honest soldier:
    O, fear me not.
    O, for two special reasons;
    O, give me leave:
    O, he is mad, Laertes.
    O, help him, you sweet heavens!
    O, here they come.
    O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
    O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
    O, methought, there was nothing meet.
    O, my dear lord,--
    O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
    O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
    O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven;
    O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
    O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
    O, speak to me no more;
    O, step between her and her fighting soul:
    O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
    O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
    O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
    O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
    O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
    O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
    O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
    O, throw away the worser part of it,
    O, treble woe
    O, vengeance!
    O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
    O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
    O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
    O, wonderful!
    O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
    O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
    Observe his inclination in yourself.
    Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
    Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
    Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
    Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
    Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
    Of Laertes?
    Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
    Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
    Of all their conference. If she find him not,
    Of bell and burial.
    Of blue Olympus.
    Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
    Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
    Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
    Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
    Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
    Of general assault.
    Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
    Of him that brought them.
    Of him, sir.
    Of his affection to me.
    Of his behavior.
    Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
    Of his true state.
    Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
    Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
    Of man and country.
    Of mighty opposites.
    Of mine own eyes.
    Of my true mother.
    Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
    Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
    Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
    Of the unworthiest siege.
    Of these delated articles allow.
    Of thinking too precisely on the event,
    Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
    Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
    Of those effects for which I did the murder,
    Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
    Of violent birth, but poor validity;
    Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
    Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
    Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
    Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
    Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
    On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
    On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
    On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
    On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
    On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
    On plots and errors, happen.
    On such regards of safety and allowance
    On wholesome life usurp immediately.
    One scene of it comes near the circumstance
    One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
    One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
    One word more, good lady.
    One.
    Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
    Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
    Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
    Or but a sickly part of one true sense
    Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
    Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
    Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
    Or for some frontier?
    Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
    Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
    Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
    Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
    Or like a creature native and indued
    Or like a whale?
    Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
    Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
    Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
    Or not at all.
    Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
    Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
    Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
    Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
    Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
    Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
    Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
    Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
    Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
    Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
    Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
    Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
    Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
    Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
    Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
    Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
    Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
    Our duty to your honour.
    Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
    Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
    Our purpose may hold there.
    Our son shall win.
    Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
    Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
    Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
    Our wills and fates do so contrary run
    Out of his lunacies.
    Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
    Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
    Out of the shot and danger of desire.
    Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
    Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
    Over the nasty sty,--
    POLONIUS hides behind the arras
    Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
    Pale or red?
    Part them; they are incensed.
    Passing through nature to eternity.
    Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
    Peace! who comes here?
    Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
    Perchance 'twill walk again.
    Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
    Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
    Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
    Play something like the murder of my father
    Pleasant and helpful to him!
    Pluck them asunder.
    Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
    Pointing to POLONIUS
    Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
    Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
    Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
    Pray you, be round with him.
    Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
    Pray you, mark.
    Pretty Ophelia!
    Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
    Prison, my lord!
    Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
    Propose the oath, my lord.
    Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
    Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
    Purpose is but the slave to memory,
    Pursued my life.
    Put your dread pleasures more into command
    Puts down the skull
    Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
    QUEEN GERTRUDE falls
    Question it, Horatio.
    Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
    Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
    Rapier and dagger.
    Re-enter Ghost
    Re-enter HORATIO, with OPHELIA
    Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
    Re-enter OPHELIA
    Re-enter POLONIUS, with VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
    Re-enter Players with recorders
    Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
    Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
    Read on this book;
    Reads
    Reads
    Reads
    Reads
    Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
    Received his love?
    Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
    Remember it, my lord?
    Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
    Repast them with my blood.
    Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
    Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
    Requite him for your father.
    Resembles that it was. What it should be,
    Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
    Retires and kneels
    Retiring with HORATIO
    Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
    Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
    Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
    Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
    Richer than that which four successive kings
    Rough-hew them how we will,--
    Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
    Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
    Safely stowed.
    Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
    Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
    Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
    Save yourself, my lord:
    Saw? who?
    Say you so? come on.
    Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
    Say,
    Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
    Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
    Scattering flowers
    Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
    Season your admiration for awhile
    See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
    See you now;
    See, it stalks away!
    See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
    Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
    Seem to me all the uses of this world!
    Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
    Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
    Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
    Set your entreatments at a higher rate
    Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
    Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
    Shall in the general censure take corruption
    Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
    Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
    Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
    She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
    She is importunate, indeed distract:
    She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
    She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
    She speaks much of her father; says she hears
    She swounds to see them bleed.
    She turns to favour and to prettiness.
    She well instructs me.
    She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
    Should be as moral as an old man's life?
    Should have a back or second, that might hold,
    Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
    Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
    Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
    Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
    Since frost itself as actively doth burn
    Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
    Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
    Since nature cannot choose his origin--
    Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
    Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
    Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
    Sings
    Sings
    Sings
    Sings
    Sings
    Sings
    Sir, I cannot.
    Sir, I lack advancement.
    Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
    Sir, a whole history.
    Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
    Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
    Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
    Sir, in this audience,
    Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
    Sir?
    Sit down awhile;
    Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
    Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
    Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
    Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
    Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
    Sleep rock thy brain,
    Sleeps
    So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
    So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
    So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
    So be it!
    So bloodily hast struck?
    So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
    So by my former lecture and advice,
    So crimeful and so capital in nature,
    So excellent a king; that was, to this,
    So far from cheer and from your former state,
    So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
    So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
    So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
    So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
    So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
    So have I heard and do in part believe it.
    So he does indeed.
    So horridly to shake our disposition
    So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
    So levied as before, against the Polack:
    So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
    So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
    So many journeys may the sun and moon
    So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
    So much as from occasion you may glean,
    So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
    So much from the understanding of himself,
    So nightly toils the subject of the land,
    So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
    So runs the world away.
    So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
    So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
    So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
    So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
    So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
    So you shall;
    So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
    So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
    So, gentlemen,
    So, oft it chances in particular men,
    So, proceed you.
    So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
    Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
    Some little time: so by your companies
    Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
    Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
    Speak loudly for him.
    Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
    Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
    Speak to her, Hamlet.
    Speak to me:
    Speak to me:
    Speak, man.
    Speak; I am bound to hear.
    Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
    Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
    Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
    Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
    Stabs KING CLAUDIUS
    Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
    Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
    Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
    Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
    Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
    Stick fiery off indeed.
    Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
    Still better, and worse.
    Stood challenger on mount of all the age
    Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
    Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
    Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
    Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
    Such an act
    Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
    Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
    Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
    Such was the very armour he had on
    Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
    Swear by my sword.
    Swear by my sword.
    Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
    Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
    Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
    Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
    Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
    Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
    Take them in.
    Take these again; for to the noble mind
    Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
    Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
    Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
    Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
    Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
    Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
    Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
    Takes the skull
    Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
    Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
    Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
    Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
    Than I to Hercules: within a month:
    Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
    Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
    Than fly to others that we know not of?
    Than is my deed to my most painted word:
    Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
    Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
    Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
    Than that which dearest father bears his son,
    Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
    Than to entreaty.
    Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
    Than your particular demands will touch it:
    Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
    Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
    Thanks, dear my lord.
    That I am guiltless of your father's death,
    That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
    That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
    That I essentially am not in madness,
    That I have longed long to re-deliver;
    That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
    That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
    That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
    That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
    That I might be the organ.
    That I must be their scourge and minister.
    That I must call't in question.
    That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
    That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
    That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
    That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
    That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
    That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
    That are but mutes or audience to this act,
    That are so fortified against our story
    That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
    That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
    That both the worlds I give to negligence,
    That can I;
    That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
    That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
    That capability and god-like reason
    That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
    That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.
    That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
    That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
    That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
    That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
    That ever I was born to set it right!
    That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
    That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
    That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
    That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
    That from her working all his visage wann'd,
    That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
    That guilty creatures sitting at a play
    That has no relish of salvation in't;
    That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
    That hath in it no profit but the name.
    That hath made him mad.
    That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
    That he could nothing do but wish and beg
    That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
    That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
    That he is open to incontinency;
    That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
    That he should weep for her? What would he do,
    That he which hath your noble father slain
    That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
    That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
    That if again this apparition come,
    That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
    That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
    That is Laertes,
    That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
    That is most certain.
    That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
    That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
    That it might please you to give quiet pass
    That it went hand in hand even with the vow
    That lend a tyrannous and damned light
    That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
    That live and feed upon your majesty.
    That looks so many fathoms to the sea
    That makes calamity of so long life;
    That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
    That might your nature, honour and exception
    That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
    That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
    That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
    That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
    That our devices still are overthrown;
    That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
    That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
    That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
    That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
    That she should lock herself from his resort,
    That show of such an exercise may colour
    That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
    That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
    That so his sickness, age and impotence
    That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
    That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
    That swift as quicksilver it courses through
    That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
    That they do know my son, come you more nearer
    That they may seem the taints of liberty,
    That thou so many princes at a shot
    That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
    That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
    That thus he suffers for.
    That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
    That to Laertes I forgot myself;
    That to the use of actions fair and good
    That treason can but peep to what it would,
    That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
    That was and is the question of these wars.
    That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
    That we can let our beard be shook with danger
    That we find out the cause of this effect,
    That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
    That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
    That you do bend your eye on vacancy
    That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
    That you know aught of me: this not to do,
    That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
    That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
    That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
    That your good beauties be the happy cause
    That youth and observation copied there;
    That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
    That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
    That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
    That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
    That's two of his weapons: but, well.
    That's very true, my lord.
    That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
    That, being of so young days brought up with him,
    That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
    That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
    That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
    That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
    That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
    That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
    Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
    The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
    The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
    The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
    The actors are come hither, my lord.
    The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
    The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
    The apparition comes: I knew your father;
    The associates tend, and every thing is bent
    The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
    The bell then beating one,--
    The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
    The better to beguile. This is for all:
    The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
    The body is with the king, but the king is not with
    The bold winds speechless and the orb below
    The canker galls the infants of the spring,
    The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
    The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
    The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
    The changeling never known. Now, the next day
    The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
    The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
    The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
    The corse they follow did with desperate hand
    The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
    The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
    The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
    The devil himself.
    The devil take thy soul!
    The doors are broke.
    The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
    The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
    The effect of what I wrote?
    The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
    The extravagant and erring spirit hies
    The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
    The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
    The form of plausive manners, that these men,
    The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
    The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
    The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
    The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
    The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
    The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
    The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
    The hart ungalled play;
    The head and source of all your son's distemper.
    The head is not more native to the heart,
    The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
    The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
    The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
    The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
    The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
    The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
    The insolence of office and the spurns
    The instances that second marriage move
    The instant burst of clamour that she made,
    The inward service of the mind and soul
    The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
    The king and queen and all are coming down.
    The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
    The king my father!
    The king rises.
    The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
    The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
    The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
    The king, sir,--
    The lady protests too much, methinks.
    The leperous distilment; whose effect
    The light and careless livery that it wears
    The lists and full proportions, are all made
    The lives of many. The cease of majesty
    The memory be green, and that it us befitted
    The natural gates and alleys of the body,
    The need we have to use you did provoke
    The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
    The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
    The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
    The ocean, overpeering of his list,
    The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
    The origin and commencement of his grief
    The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
    The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
    The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
    The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
    The pith and marrow of our attribute.
    The point!--envenom'd too!
    The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
    The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
    The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
    The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
    The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
    The queen desires you to use some gentle
    The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
    The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
    The rather, if you could devise it so
    The ratifiers and props of every word,
    The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
    The safety and health of this whole state;
    The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
    The serpent that did sting thy father's life
    The sight is dismal;
    The single and peculiar life is bound,
    The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
    The soldiers' music and the rites of war
    The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
    The source of this our watch and the chief head
    The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
    The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
    The tedious day with sleep.
    The terms of our estate may not endure
    The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
    The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
    The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
    The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
    The triumph of his pledge.
    The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
    The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
    The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
    The unseen good old man.
    The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
    The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
    The very place puts toys of desperation,
    The very same.
    The very soul, and sweet religion makes
    The violence of either grief or joy
    The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
    The which he loved passing well.'
    The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
    The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
    The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
    The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
    Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
    Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
    Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
    Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
    Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
    Then I would you were so honest a man.
    Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
    Then came each actor on his ass,--
    Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
    Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
    Then is the world one.
    Then saw you not his face?
    Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
    Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
    Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
    Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
    Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
    Then, venom, to thy work.
    Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
    Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
    There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
    There are the players.
    There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
    There is a play to-night before the king;
    There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
    There is no shuffling, there the action lies
    There lives within the very flame of love
    There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
    There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
    There with fantastic garlands did she come
    There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
    There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
    There's fennel for you, and columbines: there's rue
    There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
    There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
    There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
    There's no offence, my lord.
    There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
    There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
    There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
    There, my lord.
    There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
    Therefore I have entreated him along
    Therefore let's follow.
    Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
    Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
    Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
    These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
    These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
    These hands are not more like.
    These tedious old fools!
    These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
    They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
    They are not near my conscience; their defeat
    They are of Norway, sir.
    They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
    They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
    They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
    They bore him barefaced on the bier;
    They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
    They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
    They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
    They had begun the play--I sat me down,
    They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
    They play
    They play
    They play
    They prepare to play
    They retire without the door
    They shall go far with little.
    They swear
    They were given me by Claudio; he received them
    Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
    Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
    Think it no more;
    This above all: to thine ownself be true,
    This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
    This bodiless creation ecstasy
    This business is well ended.
    This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
    This grave shall have a living monument:
    This heavy-headed revel east and west
    This is mere madness:
    This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
    This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
    This is the very ecstasy of love,
    This is too heavy, let me see another.
    This is too long.
    This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
    This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
    This mad young man: but so much was our love,
    This man shall set me packing:
    This marvel to you.
    This must be known; which, being kept close, might
    This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
    This night to play before him.
    This nothing's more than matter.
    This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
    This presence knows,
    This present object made probation.
    This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
    This realm dismantled was
    This something-settled matter in his heart,
    This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
    This sudden sending him away must seem
    This the very coinage of your brain:
    This to your majesty; this to the queen.
    This unprevailing woe, and think of us
    This warlike volley.
    This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
    This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
    This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
    This?
    Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
    Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
    Thou canst not then be false to any man.
    Thou comest in such a questionable shape
    Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
    Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
    Thou know'st already.
    Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
    Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
    Thou pray'st not well.
    Thou still hast been the father of good news.
    Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
    Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
    Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
    Though inclination be as sharp as will:
    Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
    Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
    Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
    Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
    Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
    Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
    Through your dominions for this enterprise,
    Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
    Throws up a skull
    Throws up another skull
    Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
    Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
    Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
    Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
    Thus much the business is: we have here writ
    Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
    Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
    Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
    Thy knotted and combined locks to part
    Thy loving father, Hamlet.
    Thy natural magic and dire property,
    Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
    Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
    Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
    Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
    Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
    Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
    Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
    Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
    Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
    Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
    Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
    Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
    Tis now the very witching time of night,
    To England send him, or confine him where
    To LAERTES
    To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
    To OPHELIA
    To POLONIUS
    To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
    To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
    To any pastime?
    To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
    To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
    To be commanded.
    To be contracted in one brow of woe,
    To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
    To be your Valentine.
    To be, or not to be, that is the question,
    To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
    To both your honours.
    To business with the king, more than the scope
    To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
    To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
    To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
    To cut his throat i' the church.
    To desperation turn my trust and hope!
    To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
    To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
    To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
    To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
    To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
    To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
    To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
    To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
    To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
    To give it due content.
    To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
    To give the world assurance of a man:
    To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
    To give these mourning duties to your father:
    To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
    To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
    To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
    To hear and see the matter.
    To hear him so inclined.
    To hear of it: they are about the court,
    To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
    To heaven.
    To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
    To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
    To him from whom you brought them.
    To his confine: and of the truth herein
    To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
    To his own scandal.
    To his unmaster'd importunity.
    To keep it from divulging, let it feed
    To keep itself from noyance; but much more
    To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
    To keep those many many bodies safe
    To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
    To lay our service freely at your feet,
    To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
    To let this canker of our nature come
    To let you know of it.
    To make it truster of your own report
    To make oppression bitter, or ere this
    To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
    To mine own room again; making so bold,
    To muddy death.
    To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
    To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
    To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
    To offer it the show of violence;
    To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
    To outface me with leaping in her grave?
    To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
    To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
    To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
    To punish me with this and this with me,
    To put an antic disposition on,
    To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
    To reason most absurd: whose common theme
    To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
    To show his grief: let her be round with him;
    To show my duty in your coronation,
    To show us so much gentry and good will
    To show yourself your father's son in deed
    To sing a requiem and such rest to her
    To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
    To some Attendants
    To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
    To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
    To take him in the purging of his soul,
    To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
    To tell my story.
    To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
    To tell us this.
    To the ambassadors of England gives
    To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
    To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
    To the unsatisfied.
    To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
    To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
    To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
    To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
    To those of mine!
    To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
    To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
    To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
    To what I shall unfold.
    To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
    To what end, my lord?
    To whom do you speak this?
    To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
    To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
    To you alone.
    To you in satisfaction; but if not,
    To you yourself, to us, to every one.
    To youth and liberty.
    To't.
    To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
    Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
    Together with remembrance of ourselves.
    Together with that fair and warlike form
    Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
    Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
    Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
    Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
    Treachery! Seek it out.
    Treason! treason!
    Truly deliver.
    Truly to speak, and with no addition,
    Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
    Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
    Try what repentance can: what can it not?
    Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
    Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
    Two nights together had these gentlemen,
    Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
    Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
    Under the moon, can save the thing from death
    Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
    Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
    Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
    Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
    Unless things mortal move them not at all,
    Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
    Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
    Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
    Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
    Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
    Unto that element: but long it could not be
    Unto the voice and yielding of that body
    Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
    Up from my cabin,
    Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
    Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
    Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
    Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
    Upon mine honour,--
    Upon my life, Lamond.
    Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
    Upon my sword.
    Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
    Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
    Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
    Upon the talk of the poisoning?
    Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
    Upon what ground?
    Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
    Upon whose property and most dear life
    Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
    Very good, my lord.
    Very like a whale.
    Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
    Very strangely, they say.
    Very well, my lord
    Very well, my lord.
    Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
    Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
    Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
    Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
    Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
    Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
    Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
    Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
    Was he a gentleman?
    Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
    Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
    Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
    Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
    Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
    We beg your hearing patiently.
    We cannot get from him.
    We do it wrong, being so majestical,
    We do, my lord.
    We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
    We go to gain a little patch of ground
    We have sworn, my lord, already.
    We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
    We may of their encounter frankly judge,
    We must, with all our majesty and skill,
    We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
    We shall express our duty in his eye;
    We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
    We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have
    We shall, my lord.
    We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
    We should profane the service of the dead
    We think not so, my lord.
    We will bestow ourselves.
    We will haste us.
    We will ourselves provide:
    We will try it.
    We will, my lord.
    We will, we will.
    We would not understand what was most fit;
    We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
    We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
    We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
    We'll put the matter to the present push.
    We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
    We'll wait upon you.
    Weigh what convenience both of time and means
    Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
    Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
    Welcome, my good friends!
    Well be with you, gentlemen!
    Well may it sort that this portentous figure
    Well ratified by law and heraldry,
    Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
    Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
    Well, God-a-mercy.
    Well, good night.
    Well, my lord.
    Well, my lord:
    Well, sit we down,
    Well, we shall sift him.
    Well; again.
    Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
    Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
    What I have said to you.
    What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
    What a treasure had he, my lord?
    What are they that would speak with me?
    What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
    What call you the carriages?
    What ceremony else?
    What ceremony else?
    What company, at what expense; and finding
    What did you enact?
    What do you call the play?
    What do you read, my lord?
    What do you think of me?
    What does this mean, my lord?
    What dost you mean by this?
    What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
    What follows, then, my lord?
    What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
    What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
    What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
    What ho! Horatio!
    What hour now?
    What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
    What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
    What is between you? give me up the truth.
    What is he that builds stronger than either the
    What is it ye would see?
    What is the cause, Laertes,
    What is the issue of the business there.
    What is the matter, my lord?
    What is the matter?
    What is the reason that you use me thus?
    What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
    What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
    What is't, my lord? we will.
    What is, my lord?
    What majesty should be, what duty is,
    What man dost thou dig it for?
    What means this, my lord?
    What means your lordship?
    What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
    What might you think? No, I went round to work,
    What news, my lord?
    What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
    What out of this, my lord?
    What part is that, my lord?
    What said he?
    What shall I do?
    What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
    What should we say, my lord?
    What speech, my lord?
    What think you on't?
    What thou hast said to me.
    What to ourselves in passion we propose,
    What warlike noise is this?
    What we have two nights seen.
    What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
    What woman, then?
    What would she have?
    What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
    What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
    What's his weapon?
    What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
    What's that, my lord?
    What's the matter now?
    What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
    What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
    What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
    What, frighted with false fire!
    What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
    What, have you given him any hard words of late?
    What, is Horatio there?
    What, look'd he frowningly?
    What, my lord?
    What, the fair Ophelia!
    What?
    When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
    When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
    When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
    When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
    When down her weedy trophies and herself
    When he himself might his quietus make
    When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
    When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
    When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
    When he the ambitious Norway combated;
    When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
    When in one line two crafts directly meet.
    When in your motion you are hot and dry--
    When it proved otherwise?
    When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
    When second husband kisses me in bed.
    When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
    When sorrows come, they come not single spies
    When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
    When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
    When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
    When thou liest howling.
    When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
    When we would bring him on to some confession
    When yond same star that's westward from the pole
    Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
    Where every god did seem to set his seal,
    Where is Polonius?
    Where is my father?
    Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
    Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
    Where is this sight?
    Where is your son?
    Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
    Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
    Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
    Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
    Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
    Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
    Where should we have our thanks?
    Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
    Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
    Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
    Where we shall find him most conveniently.
    Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
    Where you may see the inmost part of you.
    Where's your father?
    Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
    Where, my lord?
    Wherefore should you do this?
    Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
    Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
    Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
    Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
    Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
    Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
    Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
    Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
    Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
    Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
    Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
    Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
    Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
    Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
    Which I have told thee of my father's death:
    Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
    Which bewept to the grave did go
    Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
    Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
    Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
    Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
    Which is not tomb enough and continent
    Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
    Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
    Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
    Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
    Which now goes too free-footed.
    Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
    Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
    Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
    Which was declining on the milky head
    Which was the model of that Danish seal;
    Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
    Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
    Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
    While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
    Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
    Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
    Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
    White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
    Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
    Who commands them, sir?
    Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
    Who hath relieved you?
    Who is to be buried in't?
    Who is't that can inform me?
    Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
    Who shall stay you?
    Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
    Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
    Who's there?
    Who, I?
    Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
    Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
    Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
    Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
    Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
    Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
    Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
    Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
    Whose violent property fordoes itself
    Whose was it?
    Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
    Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
    Why I will fight with him upon this theme
    Why ask you this?
    Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
    Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
    Why does the drum come hither?
    Why he more than another?
    Why seems it so particular with thee?
    Why should we in our peevish opposition
    Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
    Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
    Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
    Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
    Why this same strict and most observant watch
    Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
    Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
    Why to a public count I might not go,
    Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
    Why you proceeded not against these feats,
    Why,
    Why,
    Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
    Why, 'tis found so.
    Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
    Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
    Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
    Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
    Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
    Why, he had none.
    Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
    Why, how now, Hamlet!
    Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
    Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
    Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
    Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
    Why, now you speak
    Why, right; you are i' the right;
    Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
    Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
    Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
    Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
    Why, what a king is this!
    Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
    Why, what should be the fear?
    Why?
    Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
    Will bring him to his wonted way again,
    Will he tell us what this show meant?
    Will not debate the question of this straw:
    Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
    Will nothing stick our person to arraign
    Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
    Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
    Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
    Will you be ruled by me?
    Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
    Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
    Will you know them then?
    Will you two help to hasten them?
    Wilt please you go, my lord?
    Winner and loser?
    With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
    With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
    With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
    With all my heart; and it doth much content me
    With all my imperfections on my head:
    With all my love I do commend me to you:
    With all the strength and armour of the mind,
    With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
    With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
    With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
    With an entreaty, herein further shown,
    With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
    With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
    With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
    With drink, sir?
    With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
    With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
    With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
    With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
    With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
    With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
    With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
    With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
    With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
    With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
    With sore distraction. What I have done,
    With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
    With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
    With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
    With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
    With this regard their currents turn awry,
    With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
    With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
    With tristful visage, as against the doom,
    With true-love showers.
    With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
    With us to watch the minutes of this night;
    With variable objects shall expel
    With what, i' the name of God?
    With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
    With windlasses and with assays of bias,
    With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
    With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
    With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
    Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
    Within the book and volume of my brain,
    Within the centre.
    Without debatement further, more or less,
    Without more motive, into every brain
    Without the sensible and true avouch
    Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
    Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
    Witness this army of such mass and charge
    Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
    Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
    Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
    Words, words, words.
    Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
    Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
    Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
    Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
    Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
    Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
    Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
    Would have reverted to my bow again,
    Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
    Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
    Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
    Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
    Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
    Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
    Writing
    Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
    Yea, from the table of my memory
    Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
    Yes, 'faith heartily.
    Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
    Yes, it is already garrison'd.
    Yet have I something in me dangerous,
    Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
    Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
    Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
    Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
    Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
    Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
    Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
    Yet what can it when one can not repent?
    You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
    You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
    You are merry, my lord.
    You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
    You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
    You are the most immediate to our throne;
    You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
    You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
    You are welcome.
    You cannot call it love; for at your age
    You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
    You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
    You come most carefully upon your hour.
    You do not understand yourself so clearly
    You do remember all the circumstance?
    You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
    You go not till I set you up a glass
    You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
    You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
    You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
    You know the wager?
    You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
    You laying these slight sullies on my son,
    You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
    You mainly were stirr'd up.
    You might have rhymed.
    You mock me, sir.
    You must not put another scandal on him,
    You must not take for fire. From this time
    You must sing a-down a-down,
    You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
    You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
    You promised me to wed.
    You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
    You shall not go, my lord.
    You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
    You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
    You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
    You will do't, sir, really.
    You will lose this wager, my lord.
    You, as your business and desire shall point you;
    You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
    Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
    Young men will do't, if they come to't;
    Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
    Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
    Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
    Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
    Your leave and favour to return to France;
    Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
    Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
    Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
    Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
    Your party in converse, him you would sound,
    Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
    Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
    Your visitation shall receive such thanks
    Your wisdom best shall think.
    Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
    Yours, yours.
    Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
    [Advancing] What is he whose grief
    [Aside to GUILDENSTERN] What say you?
    [Aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind.
    [Aside] And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
    [Aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my
    [Aside] It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
    [Aside] Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
    [Aside] O, 'tis too true!
    [Aside] Still on my daughter.
    [Aside] Though this be madness, yet there is method
    [Aside] Wormwood, wormwood.
    [Behind] O, I am slain!
    [Behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
    [Beneath] Swear.
    [Beneath] Swear.
    [Beneath] Swear.
    [Beneath] Swear.
    [Drawing] How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
    [Pointing to his head and shoulder]
    [Reads] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
    [Rising] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
    [Sings]
    [Sings]
    [Sings]
    [Sings]
    [Sings]
    [Sings]
    [Sings]
    [To KING CLAUDIUS] O, ho! do you mark that?
    [To POLONIUS] God save you, sir!
    [Within] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
    [Within] Heaven secure him!
    [Within] Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
    [Within] Let her come in.
    [Within] Lord Hamlet,--
    [Within] Mother, mother, mother!
    [Within] My lord, my lord,--
    a carpenter?'
    a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
    a difference. There's a daisy: I would give you
    a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
    a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
    a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
    a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
    a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
    abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
    about my heart: but it is no matter.
    about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
    admiration? Impart.
    admit no discourse to your beauty.
    after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
    afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
    against six French swords, their assigns, and three
    against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
    all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
    altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
    an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
    and 'gentleman.'
    and boy, thirty years.
    and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
    and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
    and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
    and more strange return. 'HAMLET.'
    and of very liberal conceit.
    and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
    and quickly too. Farewell.
    and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
    and then, you know,
    and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
    anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
    another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
    apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
    are as mad as he.
    are not mine.
    as if you would drive me into a toil?
    as many of your players do, I had as lief the
    ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
    ask you what it means, say you this:
    ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
    assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
    at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
    at this line: let me see, let me see--
    be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
    be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
    be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
    be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
    beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
    beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
    beautified Ophelia,'--
    bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
    better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
    between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
    between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
    blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
    borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
    bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
    breed. If it shall please you to make me a
    breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
    but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
    but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
    but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
    but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
    calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
    call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
    cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
    cannot play upon me.
    card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
    carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
    caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
    censure of the which one must in your allowance
    charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
    chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
    chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
    choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
    coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
    come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
    come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
    comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
    comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
    comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
    coming, to offer you service.
    commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
    complexion.
    continent of what part a gentleman would see.
    controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
    convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
    could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
    could he dig without arms? I'll put another
    could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
    could see the puppets dallying.
    course for England: of them I have much to tell
    creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
    cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
    cuffs in the question.
    custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
    daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
    daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
    deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
    did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
    died: they say he made a good end,--
    differences, of very soft society and great showing:
    digested in the scenes, set down with as much
    dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
    do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
    does well; but how does it well? it does well to
    doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
    drown or hang themselves, more than their even
    dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
    earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
    earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
    easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
    either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
    entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
    entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
    epitaph than their ill report while you live.
    excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
    excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
    exclaim against their own succession?
    express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
    fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
    fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
    find him not there, seek him i' the other place
    first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
    fit.
    flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
    fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
    foolish ear.
    for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
    for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
    for the most part are capable of nothing but
    for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
    for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
    for't. What players are they?
    for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
    force of honesty can translate beauty into his
    forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
    friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
    from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
    gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
    gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
    gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
    gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
    gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
    gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
    gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
    go to bed.
    god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
    goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
    good discretion.
    good night, good night.
    goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
    grave's this, sirrah?
    grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
    grave-maker?
    great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
    great folk should have countenance in this world to
    great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
    harmony; I have not the skill.
    has given you one face, and you make yourselves
    have bad dreams.
    have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
    have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
    have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
    have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
    he will keep out water a great while; and your water
    hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
    her favours?
    her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
    herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
    here lies the point: if I drown myself wittingly,
    here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
    herself wittingly.
    him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
    him, his umbrage, nothing more.
    himself for your succession in Denmark?
    his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
    his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
    his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
    his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
    historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
    hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
    honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
    hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
    horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
    how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
    how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
    hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
    i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
    i' the world.
    if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
    imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
    in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
    in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
    in our more rawer breath?
    in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
    in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
    in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
    in the city? are they so followed?
    in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
    in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
    in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
    indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
    indict the author of affectation; but called it an
    inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
    instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
    into amazement and admiration.
    is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
    is a strumpet. What's the news?
    is mad, and sent into England.
    is something musty.
    is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
    is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
    is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
    it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
    it is a prison.
    it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
    it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
    it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
    it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
    it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
    it: I loved you not.
    it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
    keep counsel; they'll tell all.
    king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
    king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
    king, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
    knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
    know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
    know himself.
    know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
    lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
    laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
    late innovation.
    laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
    lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
    leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
    leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
    lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
    lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
    let to know it is.
    liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
    liberty, these are the only men.
    likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
    live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
    longer than they can sing? will they not say
    lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
    love me, hold not off.
    love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
    love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
    love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
    lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
    made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
    maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
    majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
    majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
    man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
    mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
    marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
    mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
    me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
    me one thing.
    me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
    me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
    me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
    me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
    me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
    meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
    might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
    might it not?
    mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
    modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
    modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
    months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
    more choler.
    more willingly part withal: except my life, except
    more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
    more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
    mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
    mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
    move
    much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
    must show fairly outward, should more appear like
    my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
    my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
    my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
    my life, except my life.
    my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
    myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
    mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
    name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
    narrow for your mind.
    natural, if philosophy could find it out.
    nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
    nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
    neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
    never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
    nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
    no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
    northerly.
    not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
    not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
    not.
    now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
    now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
    now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
    nunnery, go.
    nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
    o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
    o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
    odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
    of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
    of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
    of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
    offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
    one man picked out of ten thousand.
    or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
    or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
    or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
    or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
    our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
    out of his swaddling-clouts.
    out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
    outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
    own defence?
    pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
    pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
    peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
    periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
    play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
    play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
    players that I have seen play, and heard others
    players--as it is most like, if their means are no
    pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
    plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
    poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
    pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
    praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
    presently.
    prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
    progress through the guts of a beggar.
    pronounced:
    proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
    providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
    purpose, confess thyself--
    quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
    question of the play be then to be considered:
    question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
    rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
    readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
    replication should be made by the son of a king?
    responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
    rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
    ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
    savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
    say an old man is twice a child.
    say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
    say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
    sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
    scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
    see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
    semblable is his mirror; and who else would trace
    set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
    shall be dry again.
    shall be the end of my business.
    shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
    shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
    should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
    sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
    signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
    sings at grave-making?
    sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
    sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
    sir.
    sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
    snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
    so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
    some violets, but they withered all when my father
    something: where did I leave?
    southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
    spacious in the possession of dirt.
    spirit, hath sent me to you.
    spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
    stairs into the lobby.
    stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
    start not so wildly from my affair.
    steward, that stole his master's daughter.
    stoup of liquor.
    straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
    strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
    study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
    substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
    such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
    suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
    sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
    tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
    thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
    that I love passing well.
    that cry out on the top of question, and are most
    that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
    that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
    that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
    that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
    that she sends you to prison hither?
    that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
    that's the end.
    that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
    that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
    that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
    the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
    the body. The king is a thing--
    the daintier sense.
    the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
    the earth?
    the first row of the pious chanson will show you
    the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
    the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
    the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
    the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
    the hobby-horse is forgot.'
    the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
    the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
    the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
    the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
    the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
    the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
    the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
    the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
    the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
    the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
    the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
    the top of my compass: and there is much music,
    the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
    thee. Farewell.
    them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
    then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
    there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
    there. Be the players ready?
    there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
    thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
    they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
    they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
    they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
    they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
    they hold up Adam's profession.
    this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
    this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
    this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
    this pipe?
    this, give these fellows some means to the king:
    those that are married already, all but one, shall
    those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
    though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
    though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
    thousand pound. Didst perceive?
    thousand tenants.
    three and twenty years.
    three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
    through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
    thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
    thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
    till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
    time gives it proof. I did love you once.
    time: after your death you were better have a bad
    to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
    to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
    to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
    to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
    tongues else for's turn.
    too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
    too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
    too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
    touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
    town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
    tragedians of the city.
    transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
    truepenny?
    truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
    tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
    uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
    unmannerly.
    variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
    verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
    very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
    very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
    wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
    was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
    was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
    was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
    we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
    welcome to Elsinore.
    well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
    were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
    were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
    what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
    what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
    what we may be. God be at your table!
    where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
    wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
    whether you were sent for, or no?
    which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
    wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
    wilfully seeks her own salvation?
    wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
    with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
    with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
    with honesty?
    with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
    with us to the king.
    withers are unwrung.
    word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
    world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
    worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
    would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
    would vouchsafe the answer.
    wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
    yesty collection, which carries them through and
    yield them,
    you any further trade with us?
    you are asked this question next, say 'a
    you could go backward.
    you deny your griefs to your friend.
    you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
    you seem to say so.
    you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
    you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
    you.
    you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
    you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
    your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
    your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
    your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
    your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
    your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
    your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
    yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
    yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
    yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
ACT I
ACT II
ACT III
ACT IV
ACT V
All
All
All
All
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
CORNELIUS VOLTIMAND
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Danes
Danes
Danes
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
First Ambassador
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Priest
First Priest
First Sailor
First Sailor
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
Gentleman
Gentleman
Gentleman
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO MARCELLUS
HORATIO MARCELLUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LUCIANUS
Lord
Lord
Lord
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
MARCELLUS HORATIO
Messenger
Messenger
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
Player King
Player King
Player King
Player King
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Prologue
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ GUILDENSTERN
ROSENCRANTZ GUILDENSTERN
ROSENCRANTZ GUILDENSTERN
ROSENCRANTZ: GUILDENSTERN:
SCENE I. A churchyard.
SCENE I. A room in POLONIUS' house.
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
SCENE I. Elsinore. A platform before the castle.
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
SCENE II. A room of state in the castle.
SCENE II. Another room in the castle.
SCENE III. A room in Polonius' house.
SCENE III. A room in the castle.
SCENE III. Another room in the castle.
SCENE IV. A plain in Denmark.
SCENE IV. The Queen's closet.
SCENE IV. The platform.
SCENE V. Another part of the platform.
SCENE V. Elsinore. A room in the castle.
SCENE VI. Another room in the castle.
SCENE VII. Another room in the castle.
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Servant
Shakespeare homepage | Hamlet | Entire play
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
VOLTIMAND
